- [Instructor] Swagger's open source tools
are a great way to design, document
and build definitions for RESTful web services.
Let's take a closer look at these tools.
There are three tools within the open source toolbox,
the Swagger Editor, Swagger UI, and Swagger Codegen.
The editor acts like an IDE
for building API definition files.
Swagger UI can consume API definition files
to produce interactive API documentation.
Finally, Swagger Codegen can build API clients
or server stubs in several languages
based off of the API definition files.
The most important takeaway is that Swagger's tooling
centers around API definition files
that conform to the open API specification.
On the Swagger website is a live
demo of each of these tools.
Let's take a closer look at the demos
to get more familiar with the tooling.
The first tool we'll look at is the Swagger Editor.
You'll notice on the left side of the screen,
we have the editor itself.
It provides us with auto completion features
that we can use to quickly build out our API definitions.
You'll also notice that as we update our API definition,
the interactive documentation on the right hand side
will update with the changes that we've made.
This allows us to quickly see the changes
we make to our API definitions.
Another nice feature of the editor
is the fact that it can alert us
to errors within our API definition.
So you'll notice when we introduce an error,
we get flagged on the right hand side
so that we can correct the issue.
Think of the Swagger editor as a code editor,
just like Eclipse or Visual Studio.
However this editor is specifically designed
to build OES compliant API definition files.
On the website, we can also get a preview of Swagger UI.
Swagger UI hosts the API
documentation generated from our API definition file.
Here, we see that Swagger has provided us
with documentation for a fictional pet store API.
On this documentation, we're able to see the endpoints
or the operations exposed by the API.
If we were a consumer or a client of this API,
this is extremely valuable, because we're able
to dive into the different endpoints,
see the request bodies that we need to send
to the endpoint in order to invoke the operation,
and then we're also able to see what responses
are provided by the API.
Another nice feature of the API documentation
is that we have this try it out feature
which allows us to send calls against a mocked version
of the API.
The final tool we'll look at is Swagger Codegen.
You'll notice within the editor,
we have these two menu options, generate server
and generate client.
If we take a look, you'll see many languages
and frameworks that Swagger Codegen supports.
For each of these languages or frameworks,
we're able to generate a client SDK for our API,
or we can generate a server stub.
So let's generate a spring framework server stub
for our pet store API.
Once we click on the option, you'll notice
that the code downloads and then if we inspect
the zip file, we'll see the source code that we can use
to build our API implementation.
Throughout this course, we're going to be working
with all three of these tools, and I'll teach you
the tricks in order to be successful with them.